.TH btctax-tui 1  btctax "btctax manual"
.SH NAME
btctax\-tui \- interactive read\-only viewer for a btctax vault
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btctax\-tui
[\fB\-\-vault\fR \fIPATH\fR | \fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B btctax\-tui
is the interactive, READ\-ONLY terminal viewer for a btctax vault. It never writes to the
vault \(em use
.BR btctax\-tui\-edit (1)
to record reconciliation decisions, or
.BR btctax (1)
for the scriptable command line.
.PP
On launch it prompts for the vault passphrase (the Unlock screen). Once unlocked it shows a
tab bar across the projections; use the keys below to switch tabs, change the tax year, and
scroll. Press
.B e
to export the decrypted snapshot + CSVs for the selected year. If the ledger is
PSEUDO\-RECONCILED (a synthetic default contributes to the projection), the export modal
requires typing the exact attestation phrase
.B I attest this is true
before it will write the fictional draft \(em a fully\-real ledger exports with a plain confirm.
.PP
Press
.B w
to open the READ\-ONLY what\-if planner: type a hypothetical sell amount (in BTC) for a live
marginal\-tax report (the sale's own §1212 carryforward delta, §1(h) LTCG bracket + room,
NIIT), or toggle to Harvest and pick a target
.RB ( zero\-ltcg ,
.BR fifteen\-ltcg ,
.BR gain=$X ,
.BR tax=$X )
to solve for the maximum sellable amount under that constraint. The planner reuses the same
audited tax engine as
.BR btctax (1)
.B what\-if
and computes on
.BR Enter ;
it NEVER writes the vault.
.PP
The vault path is taken from
.B \-\-vault
.I PATH
or a bare positional
.IR PATH ;
when omitted it defaults to
.BR ~/Documents/BitcoinTax/vault.pgp .
.SH TABS
.TP
.B Holdings
Current per\-wallet lots and remaining balances.
.TP
.B Disposals
Realized sales/spends with gain/loss and holding term.
.TP
.B Income
Recognized ordinary income (mining/staking/interest/airdrop/reward).
.TP
.B Tax
Per\-tax\-year federal tax summary for the selected year.
.TP
.B Forms
Generated filing artifacts (Form 8949 / Schedule D / Schedule SE / Form 8283).
.TP
.B Compliance
FR9 integrity checks and open reconciliation blockers.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.SS Unlock screen
.TP
.B (type)
Enter the vault passphrase.
.B Enter
unlocks;
.B Backspace
edits;
.B Esc
quits.
.SS Viewer
.TP
.B Tab / Shift\-Tab
Next / previous tab.
.TP
.B \(<- / \(-> , h / l
Move the column cursor left / right on the Holdings, Disposals, and Income tabs
(highlights the focused column).
.TP
.B s
Sort the focused column: toggles ascending / descending; focusing a new column
sorts ascending first. A \(<- / \(-> arrow in the header marks the sort column.
.TP
.B [ / ]
Previous / next tax year (resets the row selection). No effect on Holdings, which
is not year\-scoped.
.TP
.B Up / k , Down / j
Scroll the table up / down.
.TP
.B PgUp / PgDn
Page up / down.
.TP
.B g / G
Jump to top / bottom.
.TP
.B w
Open the read\-only what\-if planner overlay (hypothetical sell / harvest tax report).
.B Tab
toggles Sell / Harvest
.RB ( s
Sell,
.B h
Harvest);
.B Up / Down
move between input fields;
.B \(<- / \(->
cycle the wallet picker;
.B Enter
computes;
.B Esc
closes. The planner never writes the vault.
.TP
.B e
Export the decrypted snapshot + projection CSVs for the selected year (confirmation modal).
While pseudo\-reconciled, the modal is a typed\-word gate requiring the exact phrase
.B I attest this is true
before it writes.
.TP
.B q / Esc
Quit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/Documents/BitcoinTax/vault.pgp
Default vault path (override with \fB\-\-vault\fR or a positional path).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR btctax (1),
.BR btctax\-tui\-edit (1)
