.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH btctax-what-if 1  btctax "btctax manual"
.SH NAME
what\-if \- Read\-only what\-if tax planning (task #43): posit a HYPOTHETICAL, NON\-persisted transaction and see its MARGINAL federal\-tax effect on the current\-year position. Routes through the same audited tax engine as `report \-\-tax\-year`; invents no tax authority. Writes NOTHING — no event, no side\-table row, no vault mutation. Tax decision\-support (consequences), not buy/sell/hold advice
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwhat\-if\fR [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] <\fIsubcommands\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read\-only what\-if tax planning (task #43): posit a HYPOTHETICAL, NON\-persisted transaction and see its MARGINAL federal\-tax effect on the current\-year position. Routes through the same audited tax engine as `report \-\-tax\-year`; invents no tax authority. Writes NOTHING — no event, no side\-table row, no vault mutation. Tax decision\-support (consequences), not buy/sell/hold advice
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
what\-if\-sell(1)
Posit a hypothetical, NON\-persisted SALE and see its MARGINAL federal tax: the lots it would consume, the ST/LT split, which §1(h) LTCG bracket (0/15/20) it lands in + room to the next breakpoint, the exact marginal tax (with\-hypothetical minus baseline — the sale\*(Aqs OWN effect, not the whole\-year figure), the effective rate, the §1212(b) carryforward carried to next year, this year\*(Aqs ordinary offset, and the §1411 NIIT delta. A net loss surfaces the carryforward disclosure (its value is NOT this\-year tax). Writes NOTHING
.TP
what\-if\-harvest(1)
Posit a hypothetical, NON\-persisted HARVEST and find the MAX BTC to sell such that a target holds on the ENTIRE prefix [0, N]: `\-\-target zero\-ltcg` (sell all that fits in the §1(h) 0% bracket), `fifteen\-ltcg` (stay at/under 15%), `gain=$X` (realize at most $X of gain WITH this sale), or `tax=$X` (add at most $X of marginal federal tax; `tax=$0` is the flagship "zero\-tax harvest"). Uses the STANDING lot method\*(Aqs consumption order (never re\-optimized). Discloses the §1212(b) carryforward burn, the §1411 NIIT kink (a 0%/15% answer can still cost +3.8%), and the plateau notes. The answer is ALWAYS engine\-verified. Writes NOTHING
