.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH btctax-report 1  btctax "btctax manual"
.SH NAME
report \- Show holdings + realized disposals/removals/income. With \-\-tax\-year: standalone TaxResult
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBreport\fR [\fB\-\-year\fR] [\fB\-\-tax\-year\fR] [\fB\-\-prior\-taxable\-gifts\fR] [\fB\-\-write\-carryover\fR] [\fB\-\-force\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Show holdings + realized disposals/removals/income. With \-\-tax\-year: standalone TaxResult.
.PP
Exit code with \-\-tax\-year (UX\-P4\-10): 0 = a filing\-ready number was rendered; 1 = ran but the year is NOT COMPUTABLE (no filing\-ready number — a missing tax profile/table or a hard blocker; mirrors `verify`); 2 = the command failed (any error). Scripts should key on NON\-ZERO. A pseudo\-active report still exits 0 — the on\-screen banner is the signal, not the exit code.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-year\fR \fI<YEAR>\fR
Filter realized disposals/removals/income to a specific calendar year (display path)
.TP
\fB\-\-tax\-year\fR \fI<TAX_YEAR>\fR
Compute the crypto\-attributable federal tax for the given tax year (B.5 / Task 9). Requires a stored tax profile (`tax\-profile \-\-year Y ...`) and the bundled TY table. Independent of \-\-year; the two flags are not aliased
.TP
\fB\-\-prior\-taxable\-gifts\fR \fI<PRIOR_TAXABLE_GIFTS>\fR
Cumulative prior\-year TAXABLE gifts (post\-annual\-exclusion Form 709 amounts), not gross gifts. Used for the §2505 lifetime\-exclusion consumption advisory. Defaults to $0 when omitted (the advisory discloses this assumption). Must not be negative
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-carryover\fR
§4 R3\-M6: persist this year\*(Aqs computed charitable + QBI carryover\-OUT as next year\*(Aqs carryover\-IN (a full\-return `\-\-tax\-year` ReturnInputs year only). `report` is otherwise read\-only; this flag opts into the vault write
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
With `\-\-write\-carryover`: overwrite a next\-year carryover\-in that was user\-entered (`income import`). Without it, a user\-entered value is left untouched and the write refuses
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
