.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH btctax-what-if-harvest 1  btctax "btctax manual"
.SH NAME
harvest \- Posit a hypothetical, NON\-persisted HARVEST and find the MAX BTC to sell such that a target holds on the ENTIRE prefix [0, N]: `\-\-target zero\-ltcg` (sell all that fits in the §1(h) 0% bracket), `fifteen\-ltcg` (stay at/under 15%), `gain=$X` (realize at most $X of gain WITH this sale), or `tax=$X` (add at most $X of marginal federal tax; `tax=$0` is the flagship "zero\-tax harvest"). Uses the STANDING lot method\*(Aqs consumption order (never re\-optimized). Discloses the §1212(b) carryforward burn, the §1411 NIIT kink (a 0%/15% answer can still cost +3.8%), and the plateau notes. The answer is ALWAYS engine\-verified. Writes NOTHING
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBharvest\fR <\fB\-\-target\fR> [\fB\-\-wallet\fR] [\fB\-\-at\fR] [\fB\-\-price\fR] [\fB\-\-filing\-status\fR] [\fB\-\-income\fR] [\fB\-\-magi\fR] [\fB\-\-carryforward\-in\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Posit a hypothetical, NON\-persisted HARVEST and find the MAX BTC to sell such that a target holds on the ENTIRE prefix [0, N]: `\-\-target zero\-ltcg` (sell all that fits in the §1(h) 0% bracket), `fifteen\-ltcg` (stay at/under 15%), `gain=$X` (realize at most $X of gain WITH this sale), or `tax=$X` (add at most $X of marginal federal tax; `tax=$0` is the flagship "zero\-tax harvest"). Uses the STANDING lot method\*(Aqs consumption order (never re\-optimized). Discloses the §1212(b) carryforward burn, the §1411 NIIT kink (a 0%/15% answer can still cost +3.8%), and the plateau notes. The answer is ALWAYS engine\-verified. Writes NOTHING
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-target\fR \fI<TARGET>\fR
The harvest target: `zero\-ltcg` | `fifteen\-ltcg` | `gain=$X` | `tax=$X` (X >= 0). `$` and commas are optional (e.g. `gain=25000`, `tax=$0`, `gain=$1,000`)
.TP
\fB\-\-wallet\fR \fI<WALLET>\fR
Wallet to harvest from, e.g. `self:cold` or `exchange:coinbase:default` (required; the per\-wallet pool is mandatory post\-2025)
.TP
\fB\-\-at\fR \fI<AT>\fR
Harvest date for the what\-if (YYYY\-MM\-DD; defaults to today UTC if omitted)
.TP
\fB\-\-price\fR \fI<PRICE>\fR
USD price per WHOLE BTC. Omit to use the bundled daily\-close FMV for `\-\-at`; REQUIRED for a future/off\-dataset `\-\-at` with no bundled price
.TP
\fB\-\-filing\-status\fR \fI<FILING_STATUS>\fR
AD\-HOC filing status (single|mfj|mfs|hoh|qss). Supplying this (with `\-\-income`) builds a NON\-persisted profile for the plan instead of the stored `tax\-profile`. Omit ALL ad\-hoc flags to use the stored profile for the harvest year
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
single
.IP \(bu 2
mfj
.IP \(bu 2
mfs
.IP \(bu 2
hoh
.IP \(bu 2
qss
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-income\fR \fI<INCOME>\fR
AD\-HOC ordinary taxable income EXCLUDING crypto (the base the crypto stacks on). Required when building an ad\-hoc profile
.TP
\fB\-\-magi\fR \fI<MAGI>\fR
AD\-HOC modified AGI excluding crypto, for the §1411 NIIT threshold. DEFAULTS TO `\-\-income` when omitted (never $0 — a $0 MAGI would silently suppress every NIIT disclosure); a printed caveat notes the assumption
.TP
\fB\-\-carryforward\-in\fR \fI<CARRYFORWARD_IN>\fR
AD\-HOC §1212(b) LONG\-TERM capital\-loss carryforward INTO the harvest year (optional; defaults to $0) — expands the harvestable\-gain room (gains are absorbed before touching the pref stack)
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help
