.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH btctax-export-irs-pdf 1  btctax "btctax manual"
.SH NAME
export\-irs\-pdf \- Fill the OFFICIAL IRS fillable PDFs for a tax year (a whole packet)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBexport\-irs\-pdf\fR <\fB\-\-out\fR> <\fB\-\-tax\-year\fR> [\fB\-\-forms\fR] [\fB\-\-attest\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fill the OFFICIAL IRS fillable PDFs for a tax year (a whole packet).
.PP
Writes (owner\-only) into \-\-out, populated from btctax\*(Aqs already\-computed projection — no capital\-gains figure is recomputed: \- f8949.pdf + schedule_d.pdf — ALWAYS. On the 2025 (1099\-DA) revision Bitcoin is filed under Box I (short\-term) / Box L (long\-term) — the digital\-asset boxes; on the pre\-1099\-DA 2024 revision it is Box C / Box F ("not reported on a 1099\-B"). Never the wrong pair for the year. More rows than a part\*(Aqs grid holds (11 in 2025, 14 in 2024) paginate onto multiple copies, each with its own totals. \- schedule_se.pdf — when there is business self\-employment income and net earnings are ≥ the $400 floor. Line 12 (SE tax) = Social Security + regular Medicare ONLY; the 0.9% Additional Medicare Tax is a Form 8959 item (flagged on stderr, not put on Schedule SE). Requires a stored `tax\-profile` for the year (filing status); missing profile ⇒ a NOTE, not a form. \- form_8283.pdf — when there are BTC donations. Fills the donee/appraiser IDENTITY + per\- donation property rows (Section A ≤ $5,000 or Section B > $5,000, with the "k Digital assets" box checked); leaves every OTHER party\*(Aqs declaration/signature BLANK (Part III taxpayer sig, Part IV appraiser sig, Part V donee acknowledgment) — a Section B 8283 is NOT filing\-ready without those signed. Overflows onto additional copies. \- form_1040_capgains.pdf — when there is reportable digital\-asset activity. Fills ONLY the capital\-gain line (line 7a in 2025 / line 7 in 2024, when Schedule D is active and line 16 ≥ 0; active\-and\-zero → "\-0\-"; a net loss leaves 7a blank — the §1211 line\-21 cap is yours) and the Digital\-Asset question (YES iff any disposal, income, gift, or donation; never a "No"). 7b checkboxes are untouched.
.PP
Every written value is read back GEOMETRICALLY against the blank PDF\*(Aqs own field coordinates and the fill FAILS CLOSED on any mis\-placement — a wrong tax form is never written. The engine drops the forms\*(Aq XFA layer (else Acrobat opens them blank) and sets NeedAppearances so a viewer regenerates the visible values. Schedule D lines 17\-22 (28%\-rate / unrecaptured\-§1250 / QDI worksheet, incl. the line\-21 loss limit) are OUT OF SCOPE. Rows on an exchange that MAY carry 1099\-DA broker reporting are flagged on stderr (btctax files them all under Box I/L and says so).
.PP
PSEUDO\-RECONCILED ledgers: the same attestation gate as export\-snapshot applies, AND every page is stamped with a diagonal `DRAFT — ESTIMATE, NOT FOR FILING` watermark.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-out\fR \fI<OUT>\fR
Output DIRECTORY receiving the filled official PDFs (created owner\-only): f8949.pdf,
schedule_d.pdf, and — when applicable — schedule_se.pdf, form_8283.pdf,
form_1040_capgains.pdf. These contain your unencrypted tax data — write \-\-out OUTSIDE any
git repo.
.TP
\fB\-\-tax\-year\fR \fI<TAX_YEAR>\fR
The tax year to fill (this build bundles TY2024 and TY2025; other years are refused). TY2024 is the pre\-1099\-DA revision: Bitcoin is filed under Box C/F (not Box I/L) and the 1040 capital gain is on line 7 (not 7a)
.TP
\fB\-\-forms\fR \fI<FORMS>\fR
Restrict the packet to specific forms (repeat or comma\-separate). Default = every applicable form (f8949 + schedule\-d always; schedule\-se when SE income ≥ the $400 floor; form\-8283 when there are donations; form\-1040 when there is reportable digital\-asset activity). A named form is still skipped when it does not apply
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
f8949: Form 8949 (per\-disposition capital\-gains rows)
.IP \(bu 2
schedule\-d: Schedule D (aggregated capital\-gains totals)
.IP \(bu 2
schedule\-se: Schedule SE (self\-employment tax)
.IP \(bu 2
form8283: Form 8283 (noncash charitable contributions)
.IP \(bu 2
form1040: Form 1040 (capital\-gains cells + the digital\-asset question)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-attest\fR \fI<ATTEST>\fR
Attestation phrase required to export while the ledger is PSEUDO\-RECONCILED (a synthetic default contributes to the projection). Pass the exact phrase `I attest this is true` (trimmed, case\-sensitive) to fill the DRAFT\-watermarked forms ON PURPOSE. Omit on a fully\-real ledger (never gated). Omit on an interactive terminal to be prompted; omit when piped (non\-TTY) while pseudo\-active and the export is refused
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
