.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH btctax 1  btctax "btctax manual"
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH NAME
btctax \- Offline US Bitcoin tax ledger (Phase 1)
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbtctax\fR [\fB\-\-vault\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] <\fIsubcommands\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B btctax
is an offline, single-user US Bitcoin tax ledger (Phase 1). It ingests exchange/wallet export
files into an append-only event log inside an encrypted vault, reconciles ambiguous movements
through explicit decision events, and projects holdings, realized disposals, income, and the
per-tax-year federal tax artifacts (Form 8949, Schedule D, Schedule SE, Form 8283).
.PP
All persistent state lives in a single passphrase-encrypted vault. The passphrase is read from the
.B BTCTAX_PASSPHRASE
environment variable when set (non-interactive/scripted use), otherwise from a secure prompt.
.PP
Most subcommands that reference an event do so by an EVENT REFERENCE (the canonical
.I EventId ) .
Event references are obtained from the
.B event
column of the projection CSVs written by
.B export-snapshot
(disposals.csv, removals.csv, income.csv), or from
.B report .
File and structured-argument FORMATS (the key backup, the export CSV set, the import-selections
CSV, the classify-raw JSON, the select-lots picks) are documented on each owning subcommand's page
(e.g.
.BR btctax-reconcile-import-selections (1)).
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-vault\fR \fI<VAULT>\fR [default: vault.pgp]
Path to the encrypted vault (vault.pgp)
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
btctax\-init(1)
Create the encrypted vault + force a key backup
.TP
btctax\-import(1)
Import one or more export files (auto\-groups Swan)
.TP
btctax\-verify(1)
FR9 integrity check (non\-zero exit on hard blockers)
.TP
btctax\-report(1)
Show holdings + realized disposals/removals/income. With \-\-tax\-year: standalone TaxResult
.TP
btctax\-reconcile(1)
Emit a reconciliation decision event
.TP
btctax\-config(1)
Show or set projection config (TP8 fee treatment / pre\-2025 lot method / forward method)
.TP
btctax\-export\-snapshot(1)
FR10: export decrypted SQLite + CSV (the NFR2 plaintext exception)
.TP
btctax\-backup\-key(1)
Export the passphrase\-protected key
.TP
btctax\-optimize(1)
Lot\-specific\-identification optimizer (§C — read\-only proposal or gated persistence)
.TP
btctax\-tax\-profile(1)
Set or show the per\-tax\-year tax profile (filing status, income, MAGI, etc.)
.SH FILES
.TP
.B vault.pgp
The encrypted vault: the append-only event log + typed side-tables. The one file that holds all
state; never edited by hand. Path set by the global \fB--vault\fR option (default: vault.pgp).
.TP
.B vault.key
The passphrase-encrypted private key, sibling to the vault. Created by \fBinit\fR; back it up with
\fB--key-backup\fR / \fBbackup-key\fR (an ASCII-armored PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK).
.TP
.B <out>/snapshot.sqlite
Decrypted SQLite database written by \fBexport-snapshot\fR (the NFR2 plaintext exception).
.TP
.B <out>/*.csv
Projection CSVs written by \fBexport-snapshot\fR: lots.csv, disposals.csv, removals.csv,
income.csv (always); form8949.csv, schedule_d.csv, form8283.csv, schedule_se.csv (with
\fB--tax-year\fR). The \fBevent\fR column supplies the event references that \fBreconcile\fR
subcommands (e.g. \fBselect-lots\fR, \fBset-donation-details\fR) consume.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Create a vault and force a key backup:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
btctax --vault vault.pgp init --key-backup key-backup.asc
.fi
.RE
.PP
Import exports, then review holdings and the current tax year:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
btctax import coinbase.csv river.csv
btctax report
btctax report --tax-year 2025
.fi
.RE
.PP
Export the decrypted snapshot + projection CSVs (with the per-tax-year filing artifacts):
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
btctax export-snapshot --out ./snapshot --tax-year 2025
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pick the exact lots a disposal consumes (specific identification), using event references read
from the export CSVs:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
btctax reconcile select-lots import|gemini|trade|T-2.O-2 \e
    --from import|coinbase|X#0:25000 --from import|river|Y#1:5000
.fi
.RE
