.TH btctax-tui-edit 1  btctax "btctax manual"
.SH NAME
btctax\-tui\-edit \- interactive editor for a btctax vault (records reconciliation decisions)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btctax\-tui\-edit
[\fB\-\-vault\fR \fIPATH\fR | \fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B btctax\-tui\-edit
is the interactive terminal EDITOR for a btctax vault. It shows the same tabs as the
read\-only viewer
.BR btctax\-tui (1)
and adds the full set of reconciliation actions. Every write is an append\-only event (or a
typed side\-table upsert) recorded only AFTER an explicit, payload\-showing confirmation; the
vault file itself is written only via the atomic save path.
.PP
On launch it prompts for the vault passphrase. The vault path is taken from
.B \-\-vault
.I PATH
or a bare positional
.IR PATH ;
when omitted it defaults to
.BR ~/Documents/BitcoinTax/vault.pgp .
Press
.B ?
at any time for the in\-app keymap overlay (the same bindings listed below).
.SH TABS
Holdings, Disposals, Income, Tax, Forms, Compliance \(em identical to
.BR btctax\-tui (1).
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.SS Navigation
.TP
.B Tab / Shift\-Tab
Switch tab.
.TP
.B \(<- / \(-> , h / l
Move the column cursor left / right on the Holdings, Disposals, and Income tabs.
.TP
.B s
Sort the focused column (toggles ascending / descending; a new column sorts
ascending first).
.TP
.B [ / ]
Change tax year (no effect on Holdings, which is not year\-scoped).
.TP
.B j / k , Up / Down
Scroll.
.TP
.B PgUp / PgDn
Page.
.TP
.B g / G
Top / bottom.
.SS Reconcile
.TP
.B c
classify\-inbound
.TP
.B o
reclassify\-outflow
.TP
.B r
reclassify\-income
.TP
.B f
set\-fmv
.TP
.B v
void
.TP
.B S
select\-lots
.TP
.B d
donation\-details
.TP
.B L
link\-transfer
.TP
.B u
classify\-raw
.TP
.B m
match\-self\-transfers
.TP
.B i
resolve\-conflict
.TP
.B z
optimize
.TP
.B e
method\-election
.TP
.B a / A
safe\-harbor attest / allocate
.SS Bulk
.TP
.B b
link
.TP
.B B
self\-transfer\-in
.TP
.B C
resolve\-conflict
.TP
.B V
void
.TP
.B I
income
.TP
.B O
reclassify\-outflow
.SS App
.TP
.B p
profile
.TP
.B T
tax inputs (full\-return authoring \(em see
.B TAX INPUTS MODE
below)
.TP
.B ?
help overlay
.TP
.B q / Esc
close / quit
.SH "TAX INPUTS MODE"
On the Browse screen,
.B T
opens the
.I "tax inputs"
editor for the selected year \(em the interactive way to author a full\-return
.B ReturnInputs
(filer header/PII, W\-2s including box 12, Schedule A including charitable
contributions, dependents, Payments \(em estimated tax, extension, other
withholding \(em declarations, and skippable sections) WITHOUT hand\-editing
TOML.
.PP
The screen is a section list on the left and a per\-field pane on the right,
with live per\-field validation as you type; a status line shows the active
source, the screen status, and the key legend.
.PP
A filing status must be chosen first \(em the return materializes only once a
status is picked. Within the form:
.TP
.B Up / Down
Move the field cursor.
.TP
.B Left / Right , Tab
Move between sections.
.TP
.B Enter
Edit the focused field.
.TP
.B a / d
Add / remove a repeating row (e.g. an additional W\-2 or dependent).
.TP
.B c / x
Create / delete an optional section (Schedule A, spouse).
.PP
Nested entries (W\-2 box 12 codes, Schedule A charitable gifts) have their own
drill\-in editor reached from the parent row.
.TP
.B s
Commit. This runs the same screen
.RI ( screen_inputs )
the resolver uses before computing a return; a refusal jumps the cursor to the
offending field instead of committing.
.TP
.B t
Toggle the active source between the full return and the tax\-profile
estimate.
.TP
.B X
Discard a parked draft.
.TP
.B q / Esc
Close the editor. The in\-progress return is autosaved to an encrypted draft
(including a partially filled one); Social Security numbers and IP\-PINs are
entered no\-echo and displayed masked.
.PP
The form commits only a
.I screen_inputs\-clean
return \(em the same gate
.B report
uses, so a committed return is never worse than what a
.B report
run would compute. It covers the common subset of a full return; it is
complementary to, not a replacement for, the file\-based path: import a
filled\-out TOML with
.B "income import"
(inspect it with
.BR "income show" ,
clear it with
.BR "income clear" ,
or answer outstanding questions with
.BR "income answer" ).
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/Documents/BitcoinTax/vault.pgp
Default vault path (override with \fB\-\-vault\fR or a positional path).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR btctax (1),
.BR btctax\-tui (1)
