.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH btctax-reconcile 1  btctax "btctax manual"
.SH NAME
reconcile \- Emit a reconciliation decision event
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBreconcile\fR [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] <\fIsubcommands\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Emit a reconciliation decision event
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
reconcile\-link\-transfer(1)
Confirm a self\-transfer (TransferLink)
.TP
reconcile\-classify\-inbound\-income(1)
Classify an inbound TransferIn as income
.TP
reconcile\-classify\-inbound\-gift(1)
Classify an inbound TransferIn as a received gift
.TP
reconcile\-classify\-inbound\-self\-transfer(1)
Classify an inbound TransferIn as an inbound self\-transfer ("my own coins" returning) — non\-taxable, creates a fresh lot. `\-\-basis` defaults to $0 (conservative; fires the honest zero\-basis advisory when omitted); `\-\-acquired` defaults to 1 year + 1 day before receipt (assumed long\-term for a cold\-storage deposit; discloses an advisory so you can correct it)
.TP
reconcile\-reclassify\-outflow(1)
Reclassify a pending TransferOut
.TP
reconcile\-set\-fmv(1)
Set a manual FMV on an event
.TP
reconcile\-void(1)
Void a revocable decision
.TP
reconcile\-classify\-raw(1)
Resolve an Unclassified row from a JSON imported payload
.TP
reconcile\-accept\-conflict(1)
Accept an import conflict
.TP
reconcile\-reject\-conflict(1)
Reject an import conflict
.TP
reconcile\-safe\-harbor\-allocate(1)
Path\-B safe\-harbor allocate (from the actual pre\-2025 position)
.TP
reconcile\-safe\-harbor\-attest(1)
Attest an existing allocation as timely
.TP
reconcile\-select\-lots(1)
§A.4 Specific\-ID: pick the exact lots a disposal consumes
.TP
reconcile\-import\-selections(1)
§A.4 Batch import LotSelections from a CSV (disposal_ref,origin_event_id,split_sequence,sat)
.TP
reconcile\-reclassify\-income(1)
SE\-completion Chunk C: flip `business` (and optionally `kind`) on an already\-imported Income event
.TP
reconcile\-set\-donation\-details(1)
Store Form 8283 Section\-B donation + appraiser details for a donation event. The event ref is the TransferOut EventId from the removals.csv \*(Aqevent\*(Aq column
.TP
reconcile\-show\-donation\-details(1)
Show stored Form 8283 donation details for a donation event
.TP
reconcile\-bulk\-link\-transfer(1)
Bulk\-confirm self\-transfers: link every PENDING outbound transfer in a time frame to one destination wallet (non\-taxable). Shows a preview + requires \-\-yes (or interactive y/N)
.TP
reconcile\-bulk\-classify\-inbound\-self\-transfer(1)
Bulk\-classify unknown\-basis inbound deposits as self\-transfer\-ins ("my own coins"): apply Cycle A\*(Aqs `SelfTransferMine` ($0 conservative basis, non\-taxable) to MANY pending inbounds in a time frame at once. Shows a preview surfacing the total USD given $0 basis (the over\-tax exposure) + requires \-\-yes (or interactive y/N). Each is a voidable decision; for a deposit whose real cost you can substantiate, classify it single\-item with `classify\-inbound\-self\-transfer \-\-basis`
.TP
reconcile\-bulk\-classify\-inbound\-income(1)
Bulk\-classify unknown\-basis inbound deposits as INCOME (mining|staking|interest|airdrop|reward): recognize MANY pending inbounds as ordinary income at their auto\-FMV (the daily\-close market value at receipt) in one confirmed batch, with a UNIFORM `\-\-kind` + `\-\-business` flag. Shows a preview surfacing the total income recognized + the count of inbounds EXCLUDED because no price was available for their date (those stay pending — an income row with no FMV would year\-gate). Each is a voidable decision; for a single deposit use `classify\-inbound\-income`
.TP
reconcile\-bulk\-reclassify\-outflow(1)
Bulk\-reclassify unknown pending OUTFLOWS as dispositions (Sell|Spend): reclassify MANY pending `TransferOut`s as a `Dispose` in one confirmed batch, with the daily\-close market value at the outflow date as the ESTIMATED proceeds. Shows a preview surfacing the total ESTIMATED proceeds AND the total ESTIMATED gain (sum(fmv) \- sum(basis)) + the count of outflows EXCLUDED because no price was available for their date (those stay pending — a Sell with fabricated proceeds would be a SILENT misreport). `\-\-kind` is UNIFORM and accepts ONLY sell|spend (gift/donate are out of scope). Each is a voidable decision; for a single outflow use `reclassify\-outflow`
.TP
reconcile\-bulk\-resolve\-conflict(1)
Bulk\-resolve import conflicts: ACCEPT (adopt each new payload) or REJECT (keep each current payload) MANY flagged `ImportConflict`s in one confirmed batch. Shows a `current → new` preview, then requires \-\-yes (or interactive y/N). Exactly one of \-\-accept / \-\-reject is required. Each resolution is NON\-REVOCABLE (`SupersedeImport`/`RejectImport` cannot be voided); to resolve a conflict differently, exclude it and use single\-item `accept\-conflict`/`reject\-conflict`
.TP
reconcile\-bulk\-void(1)
Bulk\-void MANY revocable reconcile decisions in one confirmed batch (bulk\-void). Shows a preview of every voidable decision (the SHARED `voidable_decisions` predicate — effective safe\-harbor allocations are OMITTED, #7), then requires \-\-yes (or interactive y/N). Each void is NON\-REVOCABLE (a `VoidDecisionEvent` cannot itself be voided — re\-apply the original decision to restore). Voiding a `LotSelection` also re\-exposes its disposal to the default method and clears its optimizer attestation
.TP
reconcile\-match\-self\-transfers(1)
Match unreconciled inbound + outbound legs as self\-transfers (self\-transfer\-passthrough C3). With no \-\-in/\-\-out: PREVIEW the proposed pairs (read\-only). With \-\-in and \-\-out: confirm ONE pair (DROP for a same\-wallet passthrough, RELOCATE for a cross\-wallet transfer). NEVER automatic
.TP
reconcile\-pseudo(1)
Pseudo\-reconcile MODE (sub\-project 2): fill deliberately\-fictional default decisions at projection time (NEVER persisted) to clear the Hard classification blockers — a loudly\-flagged `[PSEUDO]` on\-screen estimate you correct toward truth. `on`/`off` toggle the mode; `approve` promotes chosen defaults to real (attested) decisions
.TP
reconcile\-declare\-tranche(1)
Conservative\-filing (D\-8): declare undocumented BTC at $0 basis — the IRS fallback for unprovable basis. Folds to a single `EstimatedConservative` lot homed at `\-\-window\-end` (the latest plausible acquisition → conservative holding period). Filing\-ready, NOT pseudo. v1 makes a pre\-2025 tranche and a safe\-harbor allocation mutually exclusive
.TP
reconcile\-promote\-tranche(1)
Approach\-B: promote an already\-declared `DeclareTranche` (D\-8\*(Aqs $0 IRS fallback) to a filed `>$0` basis floor (the minimum daily closing price over the attested acquisition window), behind a mandatory purchase\-provenance attestation (BG\-D5), a two\-sided informed\-consent screen (BG\-D6), and a Form 8275 Part II narrative (BG\-D7). Mitigates penalty exposure; does not eliminate it or guarantee immunity — read the consent screen this verb prints before acknowledging
