.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH btctax-export-snapshot 1  btctax "btctax manual"
.SH NAME
export\-snapshot \- FR10: export decrypted SQLite + CSV (the NFR2 plaintext exception)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBexport\-snapshot\fR <\fB\-\-out\fR> [\fB\-\-tax\-year\fR] [\fB\-\-attest\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
FR10: export decrypted SQLite + CSV (the NFR2 plaintext exception).
.PP
WARNS (does not refuse) on unresolved Hard blockers: any Hard blocker makes every affected tax year NOT COMPUTABLE, so the exported Form 8949 / Schedule D / figures are INFORMATIONAL, not final. A warning is printed to stderr and the export still succeeds (exit 0). Automation that must GATE on unresolved blockers should check `btctax verify` (which exits non\-zero), since export\-snapshot itself stays exit 0.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-out\fR \fI<OUT>\fR
Output DIRECTORY receiving the decrypted SQLite DB (snapshot.sqlite) + projection CSVs
(the NFR2 plaintext exception; created owner\-only). ALWAYS writes: lots.csv,
disposals.csv, removals.csv, income.csv. With \-\-tax\-year it ALSO writes form8949.csv,
schedule_d.csv, form8283.csv, and schedule_se.csv (schedule_se only when there is
business self\-employment income). The `event` column in disposals.csv / removals.csv /
income.csv is the event\-ref that reconcile commands consume (select\-lots,
set\-donation\-details, reclassify\-income, …).

FORMAT (removals.csv header + one sample donation row):
  event,kind,removed_at,lot,sat,basis,fmv_at_transfer,term,acquired_at,claimed_deduction,donee
  import|coinbase|X,donation,2025\-03\-01,import|coinbase|X#0,25000,120.00,150.00,long,2023\-01\-05,150.00,Charity Y
.TP
\fB\-\-tax\-year\fR \fI<TAX_YEAR>\fR
Also emit the per\-tax\-year Form 8949 + Schedule D CSVs (form8949.csv / schedule_d.csv), scoped to this calendar year. Omit to write only the all\-years projection CSVs
.TP
\fB\-\-attest\fR \fI<ATTEST>\fR
Attestation phrase required to export while the ledger is PSEUDO\-RECONCILED (a synthetic default contributes to the projection). Pass the exact phrase `I attest this is true` (trimmed, case\-sensitive) to export the fictional draft ON PURPOSE. Omit on a fully\-real ledger (never gated). Omit on an interactive terminal to be prompted; omit when piped (non\-TTY) while pseudo\-active and the export is refused
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
